README.md, before:

# "Libretime" Multi-container Docker Setup.

This is a multi-container Docker build of the Libretime Radio Broadcast Software _(Libretime is a direct fork of Airtime for those who are wondering, hence the similarities)_.

It's an aim to run the environment ready for production which can be stood up in a few minutes (with ease), and all common media directories, database files etc mapped into the container(s) so data is persisted between rebuilds of the application.

It's originally based off my [`docker-multicontainer-airtime`](https://github.com/ned-kelly/docker-multicontainer-airtime) setup, and has been adapted to suit the newer Libretime sources accordingly.

**If you require assistance deploying this solution for a commercial station, please feel free to reach out to me - I do provide consultancy services.**

---------------------------

**Last Tested Libretime Build**: [`ned-kelly fork (2018-10-20)`](https://github.com/ned-kelly/libretime)

**Docker Hub:** [`bushrangers/ubuntu-multicontainer-libretime`](https://hub.docker.com/r/bushrangers/ubuntu-multicontainer-libretime/)



![Docker Build Status](https://img.shields.io/docker/build/bushrangers/ubuntu-multicontainer-libretime.png) ![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/bushrangers/ubuntu-multicontainer-libretime.png)



## Overview:

The project consists of four main containers/components:

 - `libretime-core` - This is the main Libretime container - Currently Based on the latest Ubuntu Xenial build.
 - `libretime-rabbitmq` - A seperated RabbitMQ container based on Alpine Linux.
 - `libretime-postgres` - The database engine behind Libretime - It's also an Alpine Linux build in an attempt to be as 'lean and mean' as possible when it comes to system resources.
 - `libretime-icecast` - The Icecast2 daemon - Alpine linux based, lightweight and uses minimal resources.

![Container Overview](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ned-kelly/docker-multicontainer-libretime/master/screenshots/docker-container-diagram.png "Container Overview")

## Configuration:

You will want to create a new `.env` file in the root of the project directory with variables that will not be over-written when pulling down newer builds of the configuration.

If you are just testing locally and not deploying this in a production environment, you can skip over this section and use the default configuration.

### Variables Currently Supported:

| Variable                | Targets            | Default Value                | Purpose                                                               |
|-------------------------|--------------------|------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `POSTGRES_USER`         | libretime-postgres | libretime                    | The username to provision when standing up PostgreSQL                 |
| `POSTGRES_PASSWORD`     | libretime-postgres | libretime                    | Password for the PostgreSQL Database                                  |
| `RABBITMQ_DEFAULT_USER` | libretime-rabbitmq | libretime                    | Username to access the RabbitMQ service                               |
| `RABBITMQ_DEFAULT_PASS` | libretime-rabbitmq | libretime                    | Username to access the RabbitMQ service                               |
| `ICECAST_CONFIG_FILE`   | libretime-icecast  | ./config/icecast-example.xml | Path to your Icecast configuration file                               |
| `EXTERNAL_HOSTNAME`     | libretime-core     | localhost                    | The FQDN of your server published on the internet - If left as `localhost` apache iframes and other configuration will be stripped out and made "relative"                     |
| `LOCAL_MUSIC_MAPPING`   | libretime-core     | `./localmusic`               | The path to your media directory / where uploads/media will be stored |

You must change the passwords in your `ICECAST_CONFIG_FILE` at a minimum - **(Don't leave the passwords as the default if you're exposing this to the internet, you will be hacked _(The default is ok if you're testing)_ - You will also need to update your settings in the Libratime UI)**.

## Standing up:

It's pretty straightforward, just clone down the sources and stand up the container like so:

```bash
# Clone down sources
git clone https://github.com/ned-kelly/docker-multicontainer-libretime.git

### MAKE YOUR CONFIGURATION CHANGES IF REQUIRED ###
vi docker-multicontainer-libretime/.env

# Edit your Icecast File
cp docker-multicontainer-libretime/config/icecast-example.xml docker-multicontainer-libretime/config/icecast.xml
vi docker-multicontainer-libretime/config/icecast.xml

# Stand up the container
docker-compose up -d

```

**Building against the Master Branch**:

If you want to build against the most recent Libratime release on Github (rather than using the official releases), simply edit the main `docker-compose.yml` file and comment out the `image` directive (in the `libretime-core` definition) and uncomment the `build` line. This will not pull the latest build from the Docker hub, but rather build a local copy from the latest Libratime sources locally. Note that there's no guarantees against the stability of Libratime when using "bleeding edge" builds.

**NOTE**:

When running for the first time, the libretime-core container will run some 'boostrap' scripts. This will take 15-30 seconds (after standing up the containers) BEFORE you will be able to fully access libretime.

You can monitor the progress of the bootstrap process by running: `docker logs -f libretime-core`.

Once the containers have been stood up you should be able to access the project directly in your browser...

## Accessing:

Just go to http://server-ip:8882/ (change port 8882 to whatever you mapped in your docker-compose file if you changed this)...

 - Default Username: `admin`
 - Default Password: `admin`

If you need to check the status of any services you may also do so by going to:

 - http://server-ip:8882/?config

Have fun!

**BE SURE TO WAIT 15-30 SECONDS OR SO FOR THE CONTAINERS TO BOOTSTRAP BEFORE TRYING TO ACCESS FOR THE FIRST TIME**

## Things to note & hack fixes:

 - There seems to be a bug in the current build of Libretime where if you run Postgres on another host the web/ui fails to log in (without any logs/errors showing anywhere)... After much pain trying to get this running "properly", the quick and simple fix has been to use a TCP proxy, that just proxies the PostgreSQL port:5432 to the actual dedicated postgres container.

 - By default - using "localhost" as the server name variable (in airtime.conf), iFrames obviously won't work - For now we are using a reverse proxy fix to replace any references to the "localhost" iframes to be relative.. See [Feature Request 515](https://github.com/LibreTime/libretime/issues/515) for details.

 - There seems to be issues when trying to just plonk a reverse proxy directly in front of the latest release of Libratime - Suspect some additional headers may need to be passed through - Anyone who has found a fix when using reverse proxies, please submit a PR.

 - The current build of Airtime has some issues pulling in podcasts that are in formats other than MP3 - this includes the [#519](https://github.com/LibreTime/libretime/issues/519) fix for users wanting to auto-import large quantities of podcasts it's pretty important as libretime currently only seems to work with MP3 podcasts.
 
## Deploying on the Internet?

You will need to setup port forwarding to your Docker host for:

 - TCP:8000 (Icecast server) - **NB: change the default icecast passwords first!**
 - Perhaps to your web interface port if you want this public...
 - TCP:8001 & TCP:8002 (Remote access for Master & Source inputs - **NB: This allows open access to Libretime, use with caution or via a VPN.**

You might want to use something like [This "Caddy" Docker Container](https://github.com/abiosoft/caddy-docker) to proxy pass to Apache with an automatic signed SSL certificate thanks to Lets Encrypt... 

## Customising & scripting your deployment

- Anything in the `customisations/` directory will be mapped into `/etc/airtime-customisations` in the container allowing you to script custom fixes/changes to the core libretime container.

- By default a file called `run.sh` will be executed (if it exists) - The current example changes the background image.

## Sample screenshots

![Homepage Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ned-kelly/docker-multicontainer-libretime/master/screenshots/homepage.png "Libretime UI Homepage")

_Fig 1: Homepage Example (with CSS customisations)._

![Schedule Example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ned-kelly/docker-multicontainer-libretime/master/screenshots/schedule-example.png "Schedule Example")

_Fig 2: Example of Schedule_

![Configuration Passing Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ned-kelly/docker-multicontainer-libretime/master/screenshots/config-check.png "Configuration Passing Screenshot")

_Fig 3: Configuration Passing & all services running "out of the box" as expected._

Commit message:

add sample google analytics inclusion

README.md, after:

# "Libretime" Multi-container Docker Setup.

This is a multi-container Docker build of the Libretime Radio Broadcast Software _(Libretime is a direct fork of Airtime for those who are wondering, hence the similarities)_.

It's an aim to run the environment ready for production which can be stood up in a few minutes (with ease), and all common media directories, database files etc mapped into the container(s) so data is persisted between rebuilds of the application.

It's originally based off my [`docker-multicontainer-airtime`](https://github.com/ned-kelly/docker-multicontainer-airtime) setup, and has been adapted to suit the newer Libretime sources accordingly.

**If you require assistance deploying this solution for a commercial station, please feel free to reach out to me - I do provide consultancy services.**

---------------------------

**Last Tested Libretime Build**: [`ned-kelly fork (2018-10-20)`](https://github.com/ned-kelly/libretime)

**Docker Hub:** [`bushrangers/ubuntu-multicontainer-libretime`](https://hub.docker.com/r/bushrangers/ubuntu-multicontainer-libretime/)



![Docker Build Status](https://img.shields.io/docker/build/bushrangers/ubuntu-multicontainer-libretime.png) ![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/bushrangers/ubuntu-multicontainer-libretime.png)



## Overview:

The project consists of four main containers/components:

 - `libretime-core` - This is the main Libretime container - Currently Based on the latest Ubuntu Xenial build.
 - `libretime-rabbitmq` - A seperated RabbitMQ container based on Alpine Linux.
 - `libretime-postgres` - The database engine behind Libretime - It's also an Alpine Linux build in an attempt to be as 'lean and mean' as possible when it comes to system resources.
 - `libretime-icecast` - The Icecast2 daemon - Alpine linux based, lightweight and uses minimal resources.

![Container Overview](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ned-kelly/docker-multicontainer-libretime/master/screenshots/docker-container-diagram.png "Container Overview")

## Configuration:

You will want to create a new `.env` file in the root of the project directory with variables that will not be over-written when pulling down newer builds of the configuration.

If you are just testing locally and not deploying this in a production environment, you can skip over this section and use the default configuration.

### Variables Currently Supported:

| Variable                | Targets            | Default Value                | Purpose                                                               |
|-------------------------|--------------------|------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `POSTGRES_USER`         | libretime-postgres | libretime                    | The username to provision when standing up PostgreSQL                 |
| `POSTGRES_PASSWORD`     | libretime-postgres | libretime                    | Password for the PostgreSQL Database                                  |
| `RABBITMQ_DEFAULT_USER` | libretime-rabbitmq | libretime                    | Username to access the RabbitMQ service                               |
| `RABBITMQ_DEFAULT_PASS` | libretime-rabbitmq | libretime                    | Username to access the RabbitMQ service                               |
| `ICECAST_CONFIG_FILE`   | libretime-icecast  | ./config/icecast-example.xml | Path to your Icecast configuration file                               |
| `EXTERNAL_HOSTNAME`     | libretime-core     | localhost                    | The FQDN of your server published on the internet - If left as `localhost` apache iframes and other configuration will be stripped out and made "relative"                     |
| `LOCAL_MUSIC_MAPPING`   | libretime-core     | `./localmusic`               | The path to your media directory / where uploads/media will be stored |

You must change the passwords in your `ICECAST_CONFIG_FILE` at a minimum - **(Don't leave the passwords as the default if you're exposing this to the internet, you will be hacked _(The default is ok if you're testing)_ - You will also need to update your settings in the Libratime UI)**.

## Standing up:

It's pretty straightforward, just clone down the sources and stand up the container like so:

```bash
# Clone down sources
git clone https://github.com/ned-kelly/docker-multicontainer-libretime.git

### MAKE YOUR CONFIGURATION CHANGES IF REQUIRED ###
vi docker-multicontainer-libretime/.env

# Edit your Icecast File
cp docker-multicontainer-libretime/config/icecast-example.xml docker-multicontainer-libretime/config/icecast.xml
vi docker-multicontainer-libretime/config/icecast.xml

# Stand up the container
docker-compose up -d

```

**Building against the Master Branch**:

If you want to build against the most recent Libratime release on Github (rather than using the official releases), simply edit the main `docker-compose.yml` file and comment out the `image` directive (in the `libretime-core` definition) and uncomment the `build` line. This will not pull the latest build from the Docker hub, but rather build a local copy from the latest Libratime sources locally. Note that there's no guarantees against the stability of Libratime when using "bleeding edge" builds.

**NOTE**:

When running for the first time, the libretime-core container will run some 'boostrap' scripts. This will take 15-30 seconds (after standing up the containers) BEFORE you will be able to fully access libretime.

You can monitor the progress of the bootstrap process by running: `docker logs -f libretime-core`.

Once the containers have been stood up you should be able to access the project directly in your browser...

## Accessing:

Just go to http://server-ip:8882/ (change port 8882 to whatever you mapped in your docker-compose file if you changed this)...

 - Default Username: `admin`
 - Default Password: `admin`

If you need to check the status of any services you may also do so by going to:

 - http://server-ip:8882/?config

Have fun!

**BE SURE TO WAIT 15-30 SECONDS OR SO FOR THE CONTAINERS TO BOOTSTRAP BEFORE TRYING TO ACCESS FOR THE FIRST TIME**

## Things to note & hack fixes:

 - There seems to be a bug in the current build of Libretime where if you run Postgres on another host the web/ui fails to log in (without any logs/errors showing anywhere)... After much pain trying to get this running "properly", the quick and simple fix has been to use a TCP proxy, that just proxies the PostgreSQL port:5432 to the actual dedicated postgres container.

 - By default - using "localhost" as the server name variable (in airtime.conf), iFrames obviously won't work - For now we are using a reverse proxy fix to replace any references to the "localhost" iframes to be relative.. See [Feature Request 515](https://github.com/LibreTime/libretime/issues/515) for details.

 - There seems to be issues when trying to just plonk a reverse proxy directly in front of the latest release of Libratime - Suspect some additional headers may need to be passed through - Anyone who has found a fix when using reverse proxies, please submit a PR.

 - The current build of Airtime has some issues pulling in podcasts that are in formats other than MP3 - this includes the [#519](https://github.com/LibreTime/libretime/issues/519) fix for users wanting to auto-import large quantities of podcasts it's pretty important as libretime currently only seems to work with MP3 podcasts.
 
## Deploying on the Internet?

You will need to setup port forwarding to your Docker host for:

 - TCP:8000 (Icecast server) - **NB: change the default icecast passwords first!**
 - Perhaps to your web interface port if you want this public...
 - TCP:8001 & TCP:8002 (Remote access for Master & Source inputs - **NB: This allows open access to Libretime, use with caution or via a VPN.**

You might want to use something like [This "Caddy" Docker Container](https://github.com/abiosoft/caddy-docker) to proxy pass to Apache with an automatic signed SSL certificate thanks to Lets Encrypt... 

## Customising & scripting your deployment

- Anything in the `customisations/` directory will be mapped into `/etc/airtime-customisations` in the container allowing you to script custom fixes/changes to the core libretime container.

- By default a file called `run.sh` will be executed (if it exists).

**Sample Customisations (in `run.sh`):**

  - Change Homepage Background
  - Add in Custom CSS to Homepage
  - Add in Google Analytics Tracking to Homepage

## Sample screenshots

![Homepage Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ned-kelly/docker-multicontainer-libretime/master/screenshots/homepage.png "Libretime UI Homepage")

_Fig 1: Homepage Example (with CSS customisations)._

![Schedule Example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ned-kelly/docker-multicontainer-libretime/master/screenshots/schedule-example.png "Schedule Example")

_Fig 2: Example of Schedule_

![Configuration Passing Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ned-kelly/docker-multicontainer-libretime/master/screenshots/config-check.png "Configuration Passing Screenshot")

_Fig 3: Configuration Passing & all services running "out of the box" as expected._
